************
Introduction
************

.. py:currentmodule:: happybase

**HappyBase** is a developer-friendly `Python <http://python.org/>`_ library to
interact with `Apache HBase <http://hbase.apache.org/>`_. HappyBase is designed
for use in standard HBase setups, and offers application developers a Pythonic
API to interact with HBase.

The example below illustrates basic usage of the library. The :doc:`tutorial
<tutorial>` contains many more examples.

::

   import happybase

   connection = happybase.Connection('hostname')
   table = connection.table('table-name')

   table.put('row-key', {'family:qual1': 'value1',
                         'family:qual2': 'value2'})

   row = table.row('row-key')
   print row['family:qual1']  # prints 'value1'

   for key, data in table.rows(['row-key-1', 'row-key-2']):
       print key, data  # prints row key and data for each row

   for key, data in table.scan(row_prefix='row'):
       print key, data  # prints 'value1' and 'value2'

   row = table.delete('row-key')

Below the surface, HappyBase uses the `Python Thrift library
<http://pypi.python.org/pypi/thrift>`_ to connect to HBase using its `Thrift
<http://thrift.apache.org/>`_ gateway, which is included in the standard HBase
0.9x releases. While this HBase Thrift API can be used directly from Python
using (automatically generated) HBase Thrift service classes, application code
doing so is very verbose, cumbersome to write, and hence error-prone. The
reason for this is that the HBase Thrift API is a flat, language-agnostic
interface API closely tied to the RPC going over the wire-level protocol. In
practice, this means that applications using Thrift directly need to deal with
many imports, sockets, transports, protocols, clients, Thrift types and
mutation objects. For instance, look at the code required to connect to HBase
and store two values::

   from thrift import Thrift
   from thrift.transport import TSocket, TTransport
   from thrift.protocol import TBinaryProtocol

   from hbase import ttypes
   from hbase.Hbase import Client, Mutation

   sock = TSocket.TSocket('hostname', 9090)
   transport = TTransport.TBufferedTransport(sock)
   protocol = TBinaryProtocol.TBinaryProtocol(transport)
   client = Client(protocol)
   transport.open()

   mutations = [Mutation(column='family:qual1', value='value1'),
                Mutation(column='family:qual2', value='value2')]
   client.mutateRow('table-name', 'row-key', mutations)

:pep:`20` taught us that simple is better than complex, and as you can see,
Thrift is certainly complex. HappyBase hides all the Thrift cruft below a
friendly API. The resulting application code will be cleaner, more productive
to write, and more maintainable. With HappyBase, the example above can be
simplified to this::

   import happybase

   connection = happybase.Connection('hostname')
   table = connection.table('table-name')
   table.put('row-key', {'family:qual1': 'value1',
                         'family:qual2': 'value2'})

If you're not convinced and still think the Thrift API is not that bad, please
try to accomplish some other common tasks, e.g. retrieving rows and scanning
over a part of a table, and compare that to the HappyBase equivalents. If
you're still not convinced by then, we're sorry to inform you that HappyBase is
not the project for you, and we wish you all of luck maintaining your code â€’ or
is it just Thrift boilerplate?


.. rubric:: Next steps

Follow the :doc:`installation guide <installation>` and continue with the
:doc:`tutorial <tutorial>`.


.. vim: set spell spelllang=en:
